docs/workflows/syntax/functions.mdx, before:

---
title: "Functions"
---

The **Functions** in Keep Workflow Engine are utilities that can be used to manipulate data, check conditions, or perform transformations within workflows. This document provides a brief overview and usage examples for each available function.

---

## String Functions

### `uppercase`

**Description:** Converts a string to uppercase.

**Example:**
```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: "keep.uppercase('hello world')" # Output: "HELLO WORLD"
```

---
### `lowercase`

**Description:** Converts a string to lowercase.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: "keep.lowercase('HELLO WORLD')" # Output: "hello world"
```
---

### `split`

**Description:** Splits a string into a list using a delimiter.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: "keep.split('a,b,c', ',')" # Output: ["a", "b", "c"]
```

---

### `strip`

**Description:** Removes leading and trailing whitespace from a string.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.strip("  hello world  ") # Output: "hello world"
```

---

### `replace`

**Description:** Replaces occurrences of a substring with another string.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.replace("hello world", "world", "Keep") # Output: "hello Keep"
```

---

### `remove_newlines`

**Description:** Removes all newline and tab characters from a string.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.remove_newlines("hello\nworld\t!") # Output: "helloworld!"

```

---

### `encode`

**Description:** URL-encodes a string.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.encode("hello world") # Output: "hello%20world"


```

## List and Dictionary Functions

### `first`

**Description:** Retrieves the first element from a list.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.first([1, 2, 3]) # Output: 1



```

---

### `last`

**Description:** Retrieves the last element from a list.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.last([1, 2, 3]) # Output: 3
```

---

### `index`

**Description:**  Retrieves an element at a specific index from a list.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.index(["a", "b", "c"], 1) # Output: "b"

```

---


### `join`

**Description:**  Joins a list of elements into a string using a delimiter.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.join(["a", "b", "c"], ",") # Output: "a,b,c"


```

---

### `len`

**Description:** Returns the length of a list.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.len([1, 2, 3]) # Output: 3


```

---

### `dict_to_key_value_list`

**Description:** Converts a dictionary into a list of key-value pairs.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.dict_to_key_value_list({"a": 1, "b": 2}) # Output: ["a:1", "b:2"]
```

---

## Date and Time Functions

### `utcnow`

**Description:** Returns the current UTC datetime.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.utcnow()
```

---

### `utcnowiso`

**Description:** Returns the current UTC datetime in ISO format.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.utcnowiso()

```

---

### `to_utc`

**Description:** Converts a datetime string or object to UTC.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.to_utc("2024-01-01T00:00:00")

```

---


### `to_timestamp`

**Description:** Converts a datetime object or string into a Unix timestamp.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.to_timestamp("2024-01-01T00:00:00")
```

---


### `datetime_compare`

**Description:** Compares two datetime objects and returns the difference in hours.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.datetime_compare("2024-01-01T10:00:00", "2024-01-01T00:00:00") # Output: 10.0

```

---

### `is_business_hours`

**Description:** Checks whether a given time falls within business hours.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.is_business_hours(timezone="America/New_York")

```

---

## JSON Functions

### `json_dumps`

**Description:**  Converts a dictionary or string into a formatted JSON string.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.json_dumps({"key": "value"})
```

---

### `json_loads`

**Description:** Parses a JSON string into a dictionary.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.json_loads('{"key": "value"}')

```

---

## Utility Functions

### `is_first_time`

**Description:** Calculates the firing duration of an alert in specified time units.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.get_firing_time(alert, "m") # Output: "15.0"

```

---

### `is_first_time`

**Description:** Adds time to a date string based on specified time units.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.add_time_to_date("2024-01-01", "%Y-%m-%d", "1w 2d") # Output: "2024-01-10"

```

---

Commit message:

feat: render_without_execution (#3027)
Signed-off-by: Matvey Kukuy <Matvey-Kuk@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/workflows/syntax/functions.mdx, after:

---
title: "Functions"
---

The **Functions** in Keep Workflow Engine are utilities that can be used to manipulate data, check conditions, or perform transformations within workflows. This document provides a brief overview and usage examples for each available function.

---

## String Functions

### `uppercase`

**Description:** Converts a string to uppercase.

**Example:**
```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: "keep.uppercase('hello world')" # Output: "HELLO WORLD"
```

---
### `lowercase`

**Description:** Converts a string to lowercase.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: "keep.lowercase('HELLO WORLD')" # Output: "hello world"
```
---

### `split`

**Description:** Splits a string into a list using a delimiter.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: "keep.split('a,b,c', ',')" # Output: ["a", "b", "c"]
```

---

### `strip`

**Description:** Removes leading and trailing whitespace from a string.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.strip("  hello world  ") # Output: "hello world"
```

---

### `replace`

**Description:** Replaces occurrences of a substring with another string.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.replace("hello world", "world", "Keep") # Output: "hello Keep"
```

---

### `remove_newlines`

**Description:** Removes all newline and tab characters from a string.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.remove_newlines("hello\nworld\t!") # Output: "helloworld!"

```

---

### `encode`

**Description:** URL-encodes a string.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.encode("hello world") # Output: "hello%20world"


```

### `raw_render_without_execution`

**Description:** Renders the string without execution of keep instructions inside this string.
**Example:**

```yaml
consts:
  yaml: |
    keep.is_business_hours(2024-03-25T14:00:00Z)
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: "raw_render_without_execution(My yaml is: {{ yaml }}!)"
```

Will output:
```
My yaml is: keep.is_business_hours(2024-03-25T14:00:00Z)!
```

## List and Dictionary Functions

### `first`

**Description:** Retrieves the first element from a list.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.first([1, 2, 3]) # Output: 1



```

---

### `last`

**Description:** Retrieves the last element from a list.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.last([1, 2, 3]) # Output: 3
```

---

### `index`

**Description:**  Retrieves an element at a specific index from a list.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.index(["a", "b", "c"], 1) # Output: "b"

```

---


### `join`

**Description:**  Joins a list of elements into a string using a delimiter.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.join(["a", "b", "c"], ",") # Output: "a,b,c"


```

---

### `len`

**Description:** Returns the length of a list.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.len([1, 2, 3]) # Output: 3


```

---

### `dict_to_key_value_list`

**Description:** Converts a dictionary into a list of key-value pairs.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.dict_to_key_value_list({"a": 1, "b": 2}) # Output: ["a:1", "b:2"]
```

---

## Date and Time Functions

### `utcnow`

**Description:** Returns the current UTC datetime.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.utcnow()
```

---

### `utcnowiso`

**Description:** Returns the current UTC datetime in ISO format.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.utcnowiso()

```

---

### `to_utc`

**Description:** Converts a datetime string or object to UTC.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.to_utc("2024-01-01T00:00:00")

```

---


### `to_timestamp`

**Description:** Converts a datetime object or string into a Unix timestamp.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.to_timestamp("2024-01-01T00:00:00")
```

---


### `datetime_compare`

**Description:** Compares two datetime objects and returns the difference in hours.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.datetime_compare("2024-01-01T10:00:00", "2024-01-01T00:00:00") # Output: 10.0

```

---

### `is_business_hours`

**Description:** Checks whether a given time falls within business hours.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.is_business_hours(timezone="America/New_York")

```

---

## JSON Functions

### `json_dumps`

**Description:**  Converts a dictionary or string into a formatted JSON string.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.json_dumps({"key": "value"})
```

---

### `json_loads`

**Description:** Parses a JSON string into a dictionary.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.json_loads('{"key": "value"}')

```

---

## Utility Functions

### `is_first_time`

**Description:** Calculates the firing duration of an alert in specified time units.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.get_firing_time(alert, "m") # Output: "15.0"

```

---

### `is_first_time`

**Description:** Adds time to a date string based on specified time units.
**Example:**

```yaml
steps:
  - name: example-step
    provider:
      type: mock
      with:
        message: keep.add_time_to_date("2024-01-01", "%Y-%m-%d", "1w 2d") # Output: "2024-01-10"

```

---
