docs/providers/documentation/amazonsqs-provider.mdx, before:

---
title: "AmazonSQS Provider"
sidebarTitle: "AmazonSQS Provider"
description: "The AmazonSQS provider enables you to pull & push alerts to the Amazon SQS Queue."
---

## Overview

The **AmazonSQS Provider** facilitates
Consuming SQS messages as alerts
Notifying/Pushing messages to SQS Queue

## Authentication Parameters

- **Access Key Id** (required): Access Key ID generated from your IAM.
- **Secret Access Key** (required): The secret corresponding to the above key-id.
- **Region Name** (required): The region of your data center eg. us-east-1, ap-sout-1, etc.
- **SQS Queue URL** (required): The url for the SQS Queue.


## Scopes

- **authenticated**: Mandatory for all operations, ensures the user is authenticated.
- **sqs::read**: Mandatory for getting alerts, ensures user can read from the Queue.
- **sqs::write**: Mandatory **only** for Notifying/Pushing messages to queue, ensures user can write to Queue.

If you only want to give read scope to your key-secret pair the permission policy: AmazonSQSReadOnlyAccess
If you only want to give read & write scope to your key-secret pair the permission policy: AmazonSQSFullAccess
Both are the policies are prebuilt in AWS.

## Inputs for AmazonSQS Action

- `message`: str: Body/Message for the notification
- `group_id`: str | None: Mandatory only if Queue is of type FIFO, ignored incase of a normal Queue.
- `dedup_id`: str | None: Mandatory only if Queue is of type FIFO, ignored incase of a normal Queue.
- **kwargs: dict | None: You can pass additional key-value pairs, that will be sent as MessageAttributes in the notification.

## Output for AmazonSQS Action
For more detail, visit [sqs-documentation](https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/reference/services/sqs/client/send_message.html#).
   ```json
   {
        'MD5OfMessageBody': 'string',
        'MD5OfMessageAttributes': 'string',
        'MD5OfMessageSystemAttributes': 'string',
        'MessageId': 'string',
        'SequenceNumber': 'string'
   }
   ```

<Note>
  - When using the AmazonSQS action, if your queue is fifo, then it is **mandatory** to pass a dedup_id & group_id.
  - All the extra fields present in the MessageAttribute is stored in alert.label as a key-value pair dictionary.
  - You can pass these attributes in the SQS Queue message and keep will extract and use these field for the alert
    - name
    - status: Possible values 'firing' | 'resolved' | 'acknowledged' | 'suppressed' | 'pending' defaults to 'firing'.
    - severity: Possible values 'critical' | 'high' | 'warning' | 'info' | 'low' defaults to 'high'
    - description

</Note>

## Useful Links

- [AmazonSQS Boto3 Examples](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/code-library/latest/ug/python_3_sqs_code_examples.html)
- [Boto3 SQS Documentation](https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/reference/services/sqs.html)

Commit message:

chore: add sqs scope to doc (#3068)
Signed-off-by: 35C4n0r <jaykumar20march@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: Tal <talboren2@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Tal <tal@keephq.dev>
Co-authored-by: Tal <talboren2@gmail.com>

docs/providers/documentation/amazonsqs-provider.mdx, after:

---
title: "AmazonSQS Provider"
sidebarTitle: "AmazonSQS Provider"
description: "The AmazonSQS provider enables you to pull & push alerts to the Amazon SQS Queue."
---

## Overview

The **AmazonSQS Provider** facilitates
Consuming SQS messages as alerts
Notifying/Pushing messages to SQS Queue

## Authentication Parameters

- **Access Key Id** (required): Access Key ID generated from your IAM.
- **Secret Access Key** (required): The secret corresponding to the above key-id.
- **Region Name** (required): The region of your data center eg. us-east-1, ap-sout-1, etc.
- **SQS Queue URL** (required): The url for the SQS Queue.


## Scopes

- **authenticated**: Mandatory for all operations, ensures the user is authenticated.
- **sqs::read**: Mandatory for getting alerts, ensures user can read from the Queue.
- **sqs::write**: Mandatory **only** for Notifying/Pushing messages to queue, ensures user can write to Queue.

If you only want to give read scope to your key-secret pair the permission policy: AmazonSQSReadOnlyAccess
If you only want to give read & write scope to your key-secret pair the permission policy: AmazonSQSFullAccess
Both are the policies are prebuilt in AWS.

## Inputs for AmazonSQS Action

- `message`: str: Body/Message for the notification
- `group_id`: str | None: Mandatory only if Queue is of type FIFO, ignored incase of a normal Queue.
- `dedup_id`: str | None: Mandatory only if Queue is of type FIFO, ignored incase of a normal Queue.
- **kwargs: dict | None: You can pass additional key-value pairs, that will be sent as MessageAttributes in the notification.

## Output for AmazonSQS Action
For more detail, visit [sqs-documentation](https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/reference/services/sqs/client/send_message.html#).
   ```json
   {
        'MD5OfMessageBody': 'string',
        'MD5OfMessageAttributes': 'string',
        'MD5OfMessageSystemAttributes': 'string',
        'MessageId': 'string',
        'SequenceNumber': 'string'
   }
   ```

<Note>
  - When using the AmazonSQS action, if your queue is fifo, then it is **mandatory** to pass a dedup_id & group_id.
  - All the extra fields present in the MessageAttribute is stored in alert.label as a key-value pair dictionary.
  - You can pass these attributes in the SQS Queue message and keep will extract and use these field for the alert
    - name
    - status: Possible values 'firing' | 'resolved' | 'acknowledged' | 'suppressed' | 'pending' defaults to 'firing'.
    - severity: Possible values 'critical' | 'high' | 'warning' | 'info' | 'low' defaults to 'high'
    - description

</Note>

<Note>
Permissions needed for the key-id pair are:
1. AmazonSQSFullAccess: If you want to notify + receive, this is sqs::read + sqs::write scope.
2. AmazonSQSReadOnlyAccess: If you want to just receive, this is the sqs::read scope.

You can find these under:
IAM > Users > [YOUR_USER] > Permission > Add Permissions > Add Permissions > Attach policies directly > Search for SQS.

To create key-id pair, follow this:
1. Search IAM in AWS console, press enter.
2. Go to users
3. Select the user that you want to
4. Click on `Create access key`
5. Select `Third party service`, Click `Next`
6. Add `Description Tag` click `Next`
7. Copy/Download the key-id pair.
</Note>

## Useful Links

- [AmazonSQS Boto3 Examples](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/code-library/latest/ug/python_3_sqs_code_examples.html)
- [Boto3 SQS Documentation](https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/reference/services/sqs.html)
