docs/providers/documentation/appdynamics-provider.mdx, before:

---
title: "AppDynamics"
sidebarTitle: "AppDynamics Provider"
description: "AppDynamics provider allows you to get AppDynamics `alerts/actions` via webhook installation"
---

## Authentication Parameters
The AppDynamics provider requires the following authentication parameter:

- `AppDynamics Username`: Required. This is your AppDynamics account username.
- `AppDynamics Password`: This is the password associated with your AppDynamics Username.
- `AppDynamics Account Name`: This is your account's name.
- `App Id`: The Id of the Application in which you would like to install the webhook.
- `Host`: This is the hostname of the AppDynamics instance you wish to connect to. It identifies the AppDynamics server that the API will interact with.

## Connecting with the Provider

Obtain AppDynamics Username and Password:
1. Ensure you have a AppDynamics account with the necessary [permissions](https://docs.appdynamics.com/accounts/en/cisco-appdynamics-on-premises-user-management/roles-and-permissions). The basic permissions required are `Account Owner` or `Administrator`. Alternatively you can create an account (instructions)[https://docs.appdynamics.com/accounts/en/global-account-administration/access-management/manage-user-accounts]
2. Find your account name [here](https://accounts.appdynamics.com/overview).
3. Determine the Host [here](https://accounts.appdynamics.com/overview).
4. Get the appId of the Appdynamics instance in which you wish to install the webhook into.

## Webhook Integration Modifications

The webhook integration adds Keep as an alert monitor within the AppDynamics instance. It can be found under the "Alerts & Respond" section.
The integration automatically gains access to the following scopes within AppDynamics:
- `administrator`
- `authenticated`


## Useful Links

- [AppDynamics HTTP Action Templates](https://docs.appdynamics.com/appd/24.x/24.3/en/extend-cisco-appdynamics/cisco-appdynamics-apis/configuration-import-and-export-api#id-.ConfigurationImportandExportAPIv24.2-ImportHTTPActionTemplatesintoanAccount)
- [AppDynamics Permissions and Roles](https://docs.appdynamics.com/accounts/en/cisco-appdynamics-on-premises-user-management/roles-and-permissions)
- [AppDynamics User Accounts](https://docs.appdynamics.com/accounts/en/global-account-administration/access-management/manage-user-accounts)

Commit message:

feat: provider appdynamics integration using access_token (#2500)

docs/providers/documentation/appdynamics-provider.mdx, after:

---
title: "AppDynamics"
sidebarTitle: "AppDynamics Provider"
description: "AppDynamics provider allows you to get AppDynamics `alerts/actions` via webhook installation"
---

## Authentication Parameters
The AppDynamics provider requires the following authentication parameter:

- `AppDynamics Access Token`: Required if username/password is not provided for Bearer token authentication.
- `AppDynamics Username`: Required for Basic Auth authentication. This is your AppDynamics account username.
- `AppDynamics Password`: Required for Basic Auth authentication. This is the password associated with your AppDynamics Username.
- `AppDynamics Account Name`: This is your account's name.
- `App Id`: The Id of the Application in which you would like to install the webhook.
- `Host`: This is the hostname of the AppDynamics instance you wish to connect to. It identifies the AppDynamics server that the API will interact with.

## Connecting with the Provider
1. Ensure you have a AppDynamics account with the necessary [permissions](https://docs.appdynamics.com/accounts/en/cisco-appdynamics-on-premises-user-management/roles-and-permissions). The basic permissions required are `Account Owner` or `Administrator`. Alternatively you can create an account (instructions)[https://docs.appdynamics.com/accounts/en/global-account-administration/access-management/manage-user-accounts]

### Basic Auth authentication

Obtain AppDynamics Username and Password:
1. Find your account name [here](https://accounts.appdynamics.com/overview).

OR create Access Token:
1. Follow instructions [here](https://docs.appdynamics.com/appd/23.x/latest/en/extend-appdynamics/appdynamics-apis/api-clients)

1. Determine the Host [here](https://accounts.appdynamics.com/overview).
2. Get the appId of the Appdynamics instance in which you wish to install the webhook into.

## Webhook Integration Modifications

The webhook integration adds Keep as an alert monitor within the AppDynamics instance. It can be found under the "Alerts & Respond" section.
The integration automatically gains access to the following scopes within AppDynamics:
- `administrator`
- `authenticated`


## Useful Links

- [AppDynamics HTTP Action Templates](https://docs.appdynamics.com/appd/24.x/24.3/en/extend-cisco-appdynamics/cisco-appdynamics-apis/configuration-import-and-export-api#id-.ConfigurationImportandExportAPIv24.2-ImportHTTPActionTemplatesintoanAccount)
- [AppDynamics Permissions and Roles](https://docs.appdynamics.com/accounts/en/cisco-appdynamics-on-premises-user-management/roles-and-permissions)
- [AppDynamics User Accounts](https://docs.appdynamics.com/accounts/en/global-account-administration/access-management/manage-user-accounts)
