docs/providers/documentation/grafana_loki-provider.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Grafana Loki'
sidebarTitle: 'Grafana Loki Provider'
description: 'Grafana Loki provider allows you to query logs from Grafana Loki.'
---

## Overview

Grafana Loki is a log aggregation system designed to store and query logs from all your applications and infrastructure. The easiest way to get started is with Grafana Cloud, our fully composable observability stack.

## Authentication Parameters

The Grafana Loki provider requires the following authentication parameters:

- `Grafana Loki Host URL`: The URL of the Grafana Loki instance.

## Connecting with the Grafana Loki provider

1. Obtain the required authentication parameters.
2. Add Grafana Loki provider to your keep account and configure with the above authentication parameters.

## Querying Grafana Loki

The Grafana Loki provider allows you to query logs from Grafana Loki through the `query` and `query_range` types. The following are the parameters available for querying:

1. `query` type:

    - `query`: The [LogQL](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/query/) query to perform. Requests that do not use valid LogQL syntax will return errors.
    - `limit`: The max number of entries to return. It defaults to `100`. Only applies to query types which produce a stream (log lines) response.
    - `time`: The evaluation time for the query as a nanosecond Unix epoch or another [supported format](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/reference/loki-http-api/#timestamps). Defaults to now.
    - `direction`: Determines the sort order of logs. Supported values are `forward` or `backward`. Defaults to `backward`.

2. `query_range` type:

    - `query`: The [LogQL](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/query/) query to perform.
    - `limit`: The max number of entries to return. It defaults to `100`. Only applies to query types which produce a stream (log lines) response.
    - `start`: The start time for the query as a nanosecond Unix epoch or another [supported format](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/reference/loki-http-api/#timestamps). Defaults to one hour ago. Loki returns results with timestamp greater or equal to this value.
    - `end`: The end time for the query as a nanosecond Unix epoch or another [supported format](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/reference/loki-http-api/#timestamps). Defaults to now. Loki returns results with timestamp lower than this value.
    - `since`: A `duration` used to calculate `start` relative to `end`. If `end` is in the future, `start` is calculated as this duration before now. Any value specified for `start` supersedes this parameter.
    - `step`: Query resolution step width in `duration` format or float number of seconds. `duration` refers to Prometheus duration strings of the form `[0-9]+[smhdwy]`. For example, 5m refers to a duration of 5 minutes. Defaults to a dynamic value based on `start` and `end`. Only applies to query types which produce a matrix response.
    - `interval`: Only return entries at (or greater than) the specified interval, can be a `duration` format or float number of seconds. Only applies to queries which produce a stream response. Not to be confused with step, see the explanation under [Step versus interval](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/reference/loki-http-api/#step-versus-interval).
    - `direction`: Determines the sort order of logs. Supported values are `forward` or `backward`. Defaults to `backward`.

## Useful Links

- [Grafana Loki](https://grafana.com/oss/loki/)
- [Grafana Loki Authentication](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/operations/authentication/)

Commit message:

feat: add auth for grafana loki (#3524)
Co-authored-by: Shahar Glazner <shaharglazner@gmail.com>

docs/providers/documentation/grafana_loki-provider.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Grafana Loki'
sidebarTitle: 'Grafana Loki Provider'
description: 'Grafana Loki provider allows you to query logs from Grafana Loki.'
---

## Overview

Grafana Loki is a log aggregation system designed to store and query logs from all your applications and infrastructure. The easiest way to get started is with Grafana Cloud, our fully composable observability stack.

## Authentication Parameters

The Grafana Loki provider requires the following authentication parameters:

- `Grafana Loki Host URL`: The URL of the Grafana Loki instance.
- `Authentication Type` : The type of authentication to use. Supported values are `NoAuth`, `Basic`, and `X-Scope-OrgID`.

### NoAuth
- No additional parameters are required, only the `Grafana Loki Host URL` is required.

### HTTP basic authentication
- `HTTP basic authentication - Username`: The username to use for HTTP basic authentication.
- `HTTP basic authentication - Password`: The password to use for HTTP basic authentication.

### X-Scope-OrgID
- `X-Scope-OrgID`: The organization ID to use for Grafana Loki Multi-tenancy support.

## Connecting with the Grafana Loki provider

1. Obtain the required authentication parameters.
2. Add Grafana Loki provider to your keep account and configure with the above authentication parameters.

## Querying Grafana Loki

The Grafana Loki provider allows you to query logs from Grafana Loki through the `query` and `query_range` types. The following are the parameters available for querying:

1. `query` type:

    - `query`: The [LogQL](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/query/) query to perform. Requests that do not use valid LogQL syntax will return errors.
    - `limit`: The max number of entries to return. It defaults to `100`. Only applies to query types which produce a stream (log lines) response.
    - `time`: The evaluation time for the query as a nanosecond Unix epoch or another [supported format](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/reference/loki-http-api/#timestamps). Defaults to now.
    - `direction`: Determines the sort order of logs. Supported values are `forward` or `backward`. Defaults to `backward`.

2. `query_range` type:

    - `query`: The [LogQL](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/query/) query to perform.
    - `limit`: The max number of entries to return. It defaults to `100`. Only applies to query types which produce a stream (log lines) response.
    - `start`: The start time for the query as a nanosecond Unix epoch or another [supported format](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/reference/loki-http-api/#timestamps). Defaults to one hour ago. Loki returns results with timestamp greater or equal to this value.
    - `end`: The end time for the query as a nanosecond Unix epoch or another [supported format](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/reference/loki-http-api/#timestamps). Defaults to now. Loki returns results with timestamp lower than this value.
    - `since`: A `duration` used to calculate `start` relative to `end`. If `end` is in the future, `start` is calculated as this duration before now. Any value specified for `start` supersedes this parameter.
    - `step`: Query resolution step width in `duration` format or float number of seconds. `duration` refers to Prometheus duration strings of the form `[0-9]+[smhdwy]`. For example, 5m refers to a duration of 5 minutes. Defaults to a dynamic value based on `start` and `end`. Only applies to query types which produce a matrix response.
    - `interval`: Only return entries at (or greater than) the specified interval, can be a `duration` format or float number of seconds. Only applies to queries which produce a stream response. Not to be confused with step, see the explanation under [Step versus interval](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/reference/loki-http-api/#step-versus-interval).
    - `direction`: Determines the sort order of logs. Supported values are `forward` or `backward`. Defaults to `backward`.

## Useful Links

- [Grafana Loki](https://grafana.com/oss/loki/)
- [Grafana Loki Authentication](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/operations/authentication/)
