docs/providers/documentation/openai-provider.mdx, before:

---
title: "OpenAI Provider"
description: "The OpenAI Provider allows for integrating OpenAI's language models into Keep."
---

<Tip>
  The OpenAI Provider supports querying GPT language models for prompt-based
  interactions.
</Tip>

## Inputs

The OpenAI Provider supports the following functions:

- `query`: Interact with OpenAI's models by sending prompts and receiving responses
- `model`: The model to be used, defaults to `gpt-3.5-turbo`

## Outputs

Currently, the OpenAI Provider outputs the response from the model based on the prompt provided.

## Authentication Parameters

To use the OpenAI Provider, you'll need an API Key, and optionally, an Organization ID from OpenAI. The required parameters for authentication are:

- **api_key** (required): Your OpenAI Platform API Key.
- **organization_id** (optional): Your OpenAI Platform Organization ID.

## Connecting with the Provider

To connect to OpenAI, you'll need to obtain an API Key and (optionally) an Organization ID:

1. Log in to your OpenAI account at [OpenAI Platform](https://platform.openai.com).
2. Go to the **API Keys** section.
3. Click on **Create new secret key** to generate a key for Keep.
4. (Optional) Retrieve your **Organization ID** under **Organization settings** if you’re part of multiple organizations.

Use the generated API key in the `authentication` section of your OpenAI Provider configuration.

Commit message:

feature: AI pack for workflows, providers and examples. (#3091)

docs/providers/documentation/openai-provider.mdx, after:

---
title: "OpenAI Provider"
description: "The OpenAI Provider allows for integrating OpenAI's language models into Keep."
---

<Tip>
  The OpenAI Provider supports querying GPT language models for prompt-based
  interactions.
</Tip>

## Inputs

The OpenAI Provider supports the following functions:

- `prompt`: Interact with OpenAI's models by sending prompts and receiving responses
- `model`: The model to be used, defaults to `gpt-3.5-turbo`
- `max_tokens`: Limit amount of tokens returned by the model, default 1024.
- `structured_output_format`: Optional JSON format for the structured output (check examples at the GitHub).

## Outputs

Currently, the OpenAI Provider outputs the response from the model based on the prompt provided.

## Authentication Parameters

To use the OpenAI Provider, you'll need an API Key, and optionally, an Organization ID from OpenAI. The required parameters for authentication are:

- **api_key** (required): Your OpenAI Platform API Key.
- **organization_id** (optional): Your OpenAI Platform Organization ID.

## Connecting with the Provider

To connect to OpenAI, you'll need to obtain an API Key and (optionally) an Organization ID:

1. Log in to your OpenAI account at [OpenAI Platform](https://platform.openai.com).
2. Go to the **API Keys** section.
3. Click on **Create new secret key** to generate a key for Keep.
4. (Optional) Retrieve your **Organization ID** under **Organization settings** if you’re part of multiple organizations.

Use the generated API key in the `authentication` section of your OpenAI Provider configuration.
