docs/providers/documentation/telegram-provider.mdx, before:

---
title: "Telegram Provider"
description: "Telegram Provider is a provider that allows to notify alerts to telegram chats."
---

## Inputs

The `notify` function in the `TelegramProvider` class takes the following parameters:

```python
kwargs (dict):
    message (str): The message to send. *Required*
    chat_id (str): The chat_id of which to send the message to. *Required* (How to get chat id - https://stackoverflow.com/questions/32423837/telegram-bot-how-to-get-a-group-chat-id)
```

## Authentication Parameters

The TelegramProviderAuthConfig class takes the following parameters:

- bot_token (str): The bot of the token. \*Required\*\*

## Connecting with the Provider

To use the Telegram Provider you'll need a bot token.
How to create telegram bot - https://core.telegram.org/bots#how-do-i-create-a-bot

## Useful Links

- Telegram Bot docs - https://core.telegram.org/bots
- Telegram how to get chat id - https://stackoverflow.com/questions/32423837/telegram-bot-how-to-get-a-group-chat-id

## Example

See `examples/alerts/db_disk_space_telegram.yml` for a full working example.

Commit message:

feat: add formatting for telegram messages (#4149)

docs/providers/documentation/telegram-provider.mdx, after:

---
title: "Telegram Provider"
description: "Telegram Provider is a provider that allows to notify alerts to telegram chats."
---

## Inputs

The `notify` function in the `TelegramProvider` class takes the following parameters:

```python
kwargs (dict):
    message (str): The message to send. *Required*
    chat_id (str): The chat_id of which to send the message to. *Required* (How to get chat id - https://stackoverflow.com/questions/32423837/telegram-bot-how-to-get-a-group-chat-id)
    parse_mode (str): The parse mode of the message. Supports "markdown", "html", None. Default is None.
```

Telegram only supports limited formatting options. Refer to the [Telegram Bot API documentation](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#formatting-options) for more information.

## Authentication Parameters

The TelegramProviderAuthConfig class takes the following parameters:

- bot_token (str): The bot of the token. \*Required\*\*

## Connecting with the Provider

To use the Telegram Provider you'll need a bot token.
How to create telegram bot - https://core.telegram.org/bots#how-do-i-create-a-bot

## Useful Links

- Telegram Bot docs - https://core.telegram.org/bots
- Telegram how to get chat id - https://stackoverflow.com/questions/32423837/telegram-bot-how-to-get-a-group-chat-id

## Example

See `examples/alerts/db_disk_space_telegram.yml` for a full working example.
