docs/deployment/docker.mdx, before:

---
title: "Docker"
sidebarTitle: "Docker"
---

### Spin up Keep with docker-compose latest images
The easiest way to start keep is is with docker-compose:
```shell
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/keephq/keep/main/start.sh | sh
```

```bash start.sh
#!/bin/bash
# Keep install script for docker compose

echo "Creating state directory."
mkdir -p state
test -e state
echo "Changing directory ownership to non-privileged user."
chown -R 999:999 state || echo "Unable to change directory ownership, changing permissions instead." && chmod -R 0777 state
which curl &> /dev/null || echo "curl not installed"
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/keephq/keep/main/docker-compose.yml --output docker-compose.yml
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/keephq/keep/main/docker-compose.common.yml --output docker-compose.common.yml

docker compose up -d
```

The docker-compose.yml contains 3 services:
- [keep-backend](https://console.cloud.google.com/artifacts/docker/keephq/us-central1/keep/keep-api?project=keephq) - a fastapi service that as the API server.
- [keep-frontend](https://console.cloud.google.com/artifacts/docker/keephq/us-central1/keep/keep-ui?project=keephq) - a nextjs app that serves as Keep UI interface.
- [keep-websocket-server](https://docs.soketi.app/getting-started/installation/docker) - Soketi (a pusher compatible websocket server) for real time alerting.

### Reinstall Keep with the option to refresh from scratch
`Caution:` This usage context will refresh from the beginning and Keep's data and settings will be erased

For cases where you need to test many different options or simply want to reinstall Keep from scratch using docker compose without spending a lot of time, that is, without repeating the steps of installing docker, downloading the installer.. .. run the commands according to the previous instructions.

Follow these steps

#### Step1: Stop, Clear container, network, volume, image.
In the directory containing the docker compose file you downloaded, say `/root/`

```
docker-compose down

docker-compose down --rmi all

docker-compose down -v

docker system prune -a --volumes
```

#### Step2: Clear Config db, config file in state folder. 

```
rm -rf state/*
``

#### Step 3: Run again

```
docker compose up -d
```

Commit message:

Fix highline code and add comment
Added source code formatting and added notes when using this reinstallation method

docs/deployment/docker.mdx, after:

---
title: "Docker"
sidebarTitle: "Docker"
---

### Spin up Keep with docker-compose latest images
The easiest way to start keep is is with docker-compose:
```shell
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/keephq/keep/main/start.sh | sh
```

```bash start.sh
#!/bin/bash
# Keep install script for docker compose

echo "Creating state directory."
mkdir -p state
test -e state
echo "Changing directory ownership to non-privileged user."
chown -R 999:999 state || echo "Unable to change directory ownership, changing permissions instead." && chmod -R 0777 state
which curl &> /dev/null || echo "curl not installed"
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/keephq/keep/main/docker-compose.yml --output docker-compose.yml
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/keephq/keep/main/docker-compose.common.yml --output docker-compose.common.yml

docker compose up -d
```

The docker-compose.yml contains 3 services:
- [keep-backend](https://console.cloud.google.com/artifacts/docker/keephq/us-central1/keep/keep-api?project=keephq) - a fastapi service that as the API server.
- [keep-frontend](https://console.cloud.google.com/artifacts/docker/keephq/us-central1/keep/keep-ui?project=keephq) - a nextjs app that serves as Keep UI interface.
- [keep-websocket-server](https://docs.soketi.app/getting-started/installation/docker) - Soketi (a pusher compatible websocket server) for real time alerting.

### Reinstall Keep with the option to refresh from scratch
`Caution:` This usage context will refresh from the beginning and Keep's data and settings will be erased. Even other containers on this host are also erased. So please consider when using the steps below.

For cases where you need to test many different options or simply want to reinstall Keep from scratch using docker compose without spending a lot of time, that is, without repeating the steps of installing docker, downloading the installer.. .. run the commands according to the previous instructions.

Follow these steps

#### Step1: Stop, Clear container, network, volume, image.
In the directory containing the docker compose file you downloaded, say `/root/`

```
docker-compose down

docker-compose down --rmi all

docker-compose down -v

docker system prune -a --volumes
```

#### Step2: Clear Config db, config file in state folder. 

```
rm -rf state/*
```

#### Step 3: Run again

```
docker compose up -d
```
