docs/deployment/secret-store.mdx, before:

---
title: "Secret Store"
sidebarTitle: "Secret Store"
---

## Overview

<Tip>Secret Manager selection is crucial for securing your application. Different modes can be set up depending on the deployment type. Our system supports four primary secret manager types.</Tip>

## Secret Manager Factory

The `SecretManagerFactory` is a utility class used to create instances of different types of secret managers. It leverages the Factory design pattern to abstract the creation logic based on the type of secret manager required. The factory supports creating instances of File, GCP, Kubernetes, and Vault Secret Managers.

The `SECRET_MANAGER_TYPE` environment variable plays a crucial role in the SecretManagerFactory for determining the default type of secret manager to be instantiated when no specific type is provided in the method call.

**Functionality**:

**Default Secret Manager**: If the `SECRET_MANAGER_TYPE` environment variable is set, its value dictates the default type of secret manager that the factory will create.
The value of this variable should correspond to one of the types defined in SecretManagerTypes enum (`FILE`, `AWS`, `GCP`, `K8S`, `VAULT`).

**Example Configuration**:

Setting `SECRET_MANAGER_TYPE=GCP` in the environment will make the factory create instances of GcpSecretManager by default.
If `SECRET_MANAGER_TYPE` is not set or is set to `FILE`, the factory defaults to creating instances of FileSecretManager.
This environment variable provides flexibility and ease of configuration, allowing different secret managers to be used in different environments or scenarios without code changes.

## File Secret Manager

The `FileSecretManager` is a concrete implementation of the BaseSecretManager for managing secrets stored in the file system. It uses a specified directory (defaulting to ./) to read, write, and delete secret files.

Configuration:

Set the environment variable `SECRET_MANAGER_DIRECTORY` to specify the directory where secrets are stored. If not set, defaults to the current directory (./).

Usage:

- Secrets are stored as files in the specified directory.
- Reading a secret involves fetching content from a file.
- Writing a secret creates or updates a file with the given content.
- Deleting a secret removes the corresponding file.

## AWS Secret Manager

The `AwsSecretManager` integrates with Amazon Web Services' Secrets Manager service for secure secret management. It provides a robust solution for storing and managing secrets in AWS environments.

Configuration:

Required environment variables:
- `AWS_REGION`: The AWS region where your secrets are stored
- For local development:
  - `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`: Your AWS access key
  - `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`: Your AWS secret access key
Optional:
- `AWS_KMS_KEY_ID`: The KMS key ID to use for encrypting secrets

Usage:

- Manages secrets using AWS Secrets Manager service
- Supports creating, updating, reading, and deleting secrets

## Kubernetes Secret Manager

### Overview

The `KubernetesSecretManager` interfaces with Kubernetes' native secrets system.

It manages secrets within a specified Kubernetes namespace and is designed to operate within a Kubernetes cluster.

### Configuration

- `SECRET_MANAGER_TYPE=k8s`
- `K8S_NAMESPACE=keep` - environment variable to specify the Kubernetes namespace. Defaults to `.metadata.namespace` if not set. Assumes Kubernetes configurations (like service account tokens) are properly set up when running within a cluster.

Usage:

- Secrets are stored as Kubernetes Secret objects.
- Provides functionalities to create, retrieve, and delete Kubernetes secrets.
- Handles base64 encoding and decoding as required by Kubernetes.

### Environment Variables From Secrets
The Kubernetes Secret Manager integration allows Keep to fetch environment variables from Kubernetes Secrets.

For sensitive environment variables, such as `DATABASE_CONNECTION_STRING`, it is recommended to store as a secret:

#### Creating Database Connection Secret
```bash
# Create the base64 encoded string without newline
CONNECTION_STRING_B64=$(echo -n "mysql+pymysql://user:password@host:3306/dbname" | base64)

# Create the Kubernetes secret
kubectl create secret generic keep-db-secret \
  --namespace=keep \
  --from-literal=connection_string=$(echo -n "mysql+pymysql://user:password@host:3306/dbname" | base64)

# Or using a YAML file:
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: keep-db-secret
  namespace: keep
type: Opaque
data:
  connection_string: $(echo -n "mysql+pymysql://user:password@host:3306/dbname" | base64)
EOF
```

#### Update the helm Values.yaml

After creating the secret, update the `values.yaml` so the helm chart will inject the secret as env var:
```bash
backend:
  enabled: true
  waitForDatabase: true
  databaseConnectionStringFromSecret:
    enabled: true  # Enable using secret for database connection
    secretName: "keep-db-secret"  # Name of the secret we created
    secretKey: "connection_string"  # Key in the secret containing our connection string
```

#### Apply with Helm

```bash
# If installing for the first time
helm install keep keephq/keep \
  -f values.yaml \
  --namespace keep

# If updating existing installation
helm upgrade keep keephq/keep \
  -f values.yaml \
  --namespace keep
```

#### Verify the installation

Check if the secret is properly created:
```bash
kubectl get secret keep-db-secret -n keep
```

Verify the content of the secret is correct:
```bash
kubectl get secret keep-db-secret -n keep -o jsonpath='{.data.connection_string}' | base64 -d
```

Verify the pod using the secret:
```bash
kubectl get pod -n keep -l app.kubernetes.io/component=backend -o yaml | grep DATABASE_CONNECTION_STRING -A 5
```



## GCP Secret Manager

The `GcpSecretManager` utilizes Google Cloud's Secret Manager service for secret management. It requires setting up with Google Cloud credentials and a project ID.

Configuration:

Ensure the environment variable `GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT` is set with your Google Cloud project ID.

Usage:

- Secrets are managed using Google Cloud's Secret Manager.
- Supports operations to create, access, and delete secrets in the cloud.
- Integrates with OpenTelemetry for tracing secret management operations.

## Hashicorp Vault Secret Manager

The `VaultSecretManager` is tailored for Hashicorp Vault, a tool for managing sensitive data. It supports token-based authentication as well as Kubernetes-based authentication for Vault.

Configuration:

- Set `HASHICORP_VAULT_ADDR` to the Vault server address. Defaults to http://localhost:8200.
- Use `HASHICORP_VAULT_TOKEN` for token-based authentication.
- Set `HASHICORP_VAULT_USE_K8S` to True and provide `HASHICORP_VAULT_K8S_ROLE` for Kubernetes-based authentication.

Usage:

- Manages secrets in a Hashicorp Vault server.
- Provides methods to write, read, and delete secrets from Vault.
- Supports different Vault authentication methods including static tokens and Kubernetes service account tokens.

Commit message:

feat: aws secret manager optional tags

docs/deployment/secret-store.mdx, after:

---
title: "Secret Store"
sidebarTitle: "Secret Store"
---

## Overview

<Tip>
  Secret Manager selection is crucial for securing your application. Different
  modes can be set up depending on the deployment type. Our system supports four
  primary secret manager types.
</Tip>

## Secret Manager Factory

The `SecretManagerFactory` is a utility class used to create instances of different types of secret managers. It leverages the Factory design pattern to abstract the creation logic based on the type of secret manager required. The factory supports creating instances of File, GCP, Kubernetes, and Vault Secret Managers.

The `SECRET_MANAGER_TYPE` environment variable plays a crucial role in the SecretManagerFactory for determining the default type of secret manager to be instantiated when no specific type is provided in the method call.

**Functionality**:

**Default Secret Manager**: If the `SECRET_MANAGER_TYPE` environment variable is set, its value dictates the default type of secret manager that the factory will create.
The value of this variable should correspond to one of the types defined in SecretManagerTypes enum (`FILE`, `AWS`, `GCP`, `K8S`, `VAULT`).

**Example Configuration**:

Setting `SECRET_MANAGER_TYPE=GCP` in the environment will make the factory create instances of GcpSecretManager by default.
If `SECRET_MANAGER_TYPE` is not set or is set to `FILE`, the factory defaults to creating instances of FileSecretManager.
This environment variable provides flexibility and ease of configuration, allowing different secret managers to be used in different environments or scenarios without code changes.

## File Secret Manager

The `FileSecretManager` is a concrete implementation of the BaseSecretManager for managing secrets stored in the file system. It uses a specified directory (defaulting to ./) to read, write, and delete secret files.

Configuration:

Set the environment variable `SECRET_MANAGER_DIRECTORY` to specify the directory where secrets are stored. If not set, defaults to the current directory (./).

Usage:

- Secrets are stored as files in the specified directory.
- Reading a secret involves fetching content from a file.
- Writing a secret creates or updates a file with the given content.
- Deleting a secret removes the corresponding file.

## AWS Secret Manager

The `AwsSecretManager` integrates with Amazon Web Services' Secrets Manager service for secure secret management. It provides a robust solution for storing and managing secrets in AWS environments.

Configuration:

Required environment variables:

- `AWS_REGION`: The AWS region where your secrets are stored
- For local development:
  - `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`: Your AWS access key
  - `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`: Your AWS secret access key
    Optional:
- `AWS_KMS_KEY_ID`: The KMS key ID to use for encrypting secrets
- `AWS_SECRET_MANAGER_TAGS`: Comma-separated list of tags to add to the secret in AWS Secrets Manager, e.g. `key=value,key2=value2`

Usage:

- Manages secrets using AWS Secrets Manager service
- Supports creating, updating, reading, and deleting secrets

## Kubernetes Secret Manager

### Overview

The `KubernetesSecretManager` interfaces with Kubernetes' native secrets system.

It manages secrets within a specified Kubernetes namespace and is designed to operate within a Kubernetes cluster.

### Configuration

- `SECRET_MANAGER_TYPE=k8s`
- `K8S_NAMESPACE=keep` - environment variable to specify the Kubernetes namespace. Defaults to `.metadata.namespace` if not set. Assumes Kubernetes configurations (like service account tokens) are properly set up when running within a cluster.

Usage:

- Secrets are stored as Kubernetes Secret objects.
- Provides functionalities to create, retrieve, and delete Kubernetes secrets.
- Handles base64 encoding and decoding as required by Kubernetes.

### Environment Variables From Secrets

The Kubernetes Secret Manager integration allows Keep to fetch environment variables from Kubernetes Secrets.

For sensitive environment variables, such as `DATABASE_CONNECTION_STRING`, it is recommended to store as a secret:

#### Creating Database Connection Secret

```bash
# Create the base64 encoded string without newline
CONNECTION_STRING_B64=$(echo -n "mysql+pymysql://user:password@host:3306/dbname" | base64)

# Create the Kubernetes secret
kubectl create secret generic keep-db-secret \
  --namespace=keep \
  --from-literal=connection_string=$(echo -n "mysql+pymysql://user:password@host:3306/dbname" | base64)

# Or using a YAML file:
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: keep-db-secret
  namespace: keep
type: Opaque
data:
  connection_string: $(echo -n "mysql+pymysql://user:password@host:3306/dbname" | base64)
EOF
```

#### Update the helm Values.yaml

After creating the secret, update the `values.yaml` so the helm chart will inject the secret as env var:

```bash
backend:
  enabled: true
  waitForDatabase: true
  databaseConnectionStringFromSecret:
    enabled: true  # Enable using secret for database connection
    secretName: "keep-db-secret"  # Name of the secret we created
    secretKey: "connection_string"  # Key in the secret containing our connection string
```

#### Apply with Helm

```bash
# If installing for the first time
helm install keep keephq/keep \
  -f values.yaml \
  --namespace keep

# If updating existing installation
helm upgrade keep keephq/keep \
  -f values.yaml \
  --namespace keep
```

#### Verify the installation

Check if the secret is properly created:

```bash
kubectl get secret keep-db-secret -n keep
```

Verify the content of the secret is correct:

```bash
kubectl get secret keep-db-secret -n keep -o jsonpath='{.data.connection_string}' | base64 -d
```

Verify the pod using the secret:

```bash
kubectl get pod -n keep -l app.kubernetes.io/component=backend -o yaml | grep DATABASE_CONNECTION_STRING -A 5
```

## GCP Secret Manager

The `GcpSecretManager` utilizes Google Cloud's Secret Manager service for secret management. It requires setting up with Google Cloud credentials and a project ID.

Configuration:

Ensure the environment variable `GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT` is set with your Google Cloud project ID.

Usage:

- Secrets are managed using Google Cloud's Secret Manager.
- Supports operations to create, access, and delete secrets in the cloud.
- Integrates with OpenTelemetry for tracing secret management operations.

## Hashicorp Vault Secret Manager

The `VaultSecretManager` is tailored for Hashicorp Vault, a tool for managing sensitive data. It supports token-based authentication as well as Kubernetes-based authentication for Vault.

Configuration:

- Set `HASHICORP_VAULT_ADDR` to the Vault server address. Defaults to http://localhost:8200.
- Use `HASHICORP_VAULT_TOKEN` for token-based authentication.
- Set `HASHICORP_VAULT_USE_K8S` to True and provide `HASHICORP_VAULT_K8S_ROLE` for Kubernetes-based authentication.

Usage:

- Manages secrets in a Hashicorp Vault server.
- Provides methods to write, read, and delete secrets from Vault.
- Supports different Vault authentication methods including static tokens and Kubernetes service account tokens.
