docs/deployment/provision/overview.mdx, before:

---
title: "Overview"
---

Keep supports various deployment and provisioning strategies to accommodate different environments and use cases, from development setups to production deployments.

### Provisioning Options

Keep offers three main provisioning options:

1. [**Provider Provisioning**](/deployment/provision/provider) - Set up and manage data providers with their deduplication rules for Keep.
2. [**Workflow Provisioning**](/deployment/provision/workflow) - Configure and manage workflows within Keep.
3. [**Dashboard Provisioning**](/deployment/provision/dashboard) - Configure and manage dashboards within Keep.


Choosing the right provisioning strategy depends on your specific use case, deployment environment, and scalability requirements. You can read more about each provisioning option in their respective sections.

### How To Configure Provisioning

<Tip>
  Some provisioning options require additional environment variables. These will
  be covered in detail on the specific provisioning pages.
</Tip>

Provisioning in Keep is controlled through environment variables and configuration files. The main environment variables for provisioning are:

| Provisioning Type      | Environment Variable           | Purpose                                                                 |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Provider**           | `KEEP_PROVIDERS`               | JSON string containing provider configurations with deduplication rules |
| **Workflow**           | `KEEP_WORKFLOWS_DIRECTORY`     | Directory path containing workflow configuration files                  |
| **Dashboard**          | `KEEP_DASHBOARDS`              | JSON string containing dashboard configurations                         |


For more details on each provisioning strategy, including setup instructions and implications, refer to the respective sections.

Commit message:

feat: workflow provisioning from the env (#3652)

docs/deployment/provision/overview.mdx, after:

---
title: "Overview"
---

Keep supports various deployment and provisioning strategies to accommodate different environments and use cases, from development setups to production deployments.

### Provisioning Options

Keep offers three main provisioning options:

1. [**Provider Provisioning**](/deployment/provision/provider) - Set up and manage data providers with their deduplication rules for Keep.
2. [**Workflow Provisioning**](/deployment/provision/workflow) - Configure and manage workflows within Keep.
3. [**Dashboard Provisioning**](/deployment/provision/dashboard) - Configure and manage dashboards within Keep.


Choosing the right provisioning strategy depends on your specific use case, deployment environment, and scalability requirements. You can read more about each provisioning option in their respective sections.

### How To Configure Provisioning

<Tip>
  Some provisioning options require additional environment variables. These will
  be covered in detail on the specific provisioning pages.
</Tip>

Provisioning in Keep is controlled through environment variables and configuration files. The main environment variables for provisioning are:

| Provisioning Type      | Environment Variable           | Purpose                                                                   |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Provider**           | `KEEP_PROVIDERS`               | JSON string containing provider configurations with deduplication rules   |
| **Workflow**           | `KEEP_WORKFLOW`                | One workflow to provision right from the env variable.                    |
| **Workflows**          | `KEEP_WORKFLOWS_DIRECTORY`     | Directory path containing workflow configuration files                    |
| **Dashboard**          | `KEEP_DASHBOARDS`              | JSON string containing dashboard configurations                           |

Hint: use the script to get 1-liner from the workflow file for KEEP_WORKFLOW:
```
Use `cat workflow_file.yaml | awk '{printf "%s\\n", $0}' | tr -d '\n'; echo` to get the workflow in 1-string format.
```

For more details on each provisioning strategy, including setup instructions and implications, refer to the respective sections.
